15 Ideas For Your UC San Diego Bucket List

If you’re a current student, coursework and exam prep will fill plenty of your time. But remember to make space for memories and connections you’ll cherish long after graduation.

To start off the academic year, we’ve listed ideas inspired by fellow Tritons to help you craft your own UC San Diego bucket list. Beyond the classroom, the university abounds with art, culture, spirit, adventure and community. So add your own items to the list, see how many you can check off before you graduate, and don’t worry if you don’t get to everything. Once a Triton, forever a Triton — you’re always welcome back.

1. Witness ‘Scrippshenge’
Twice a year, the sun hovers above the Pacific Ocean horizon and glimmers perfectly between the pilings of the Ellen Browning Scripps Memorial Pier. Catch the phenomenon known as Scrippshenge each May or August — bring your camera or simply admire the cosmic scenery. Epic sunsets with ocean views can also be seen year-round from the Brian & Nancy Malk Sunset Overlook or Torrey Pines Gliderport.

2. Find your favorite campus spot(s)
Need a quiet or uplifting space? Check out these 10 study spots and 10 places to find serenity located around UC San Diego’s 12,000 acres of coastal woodland. Take a nap in a hammock, get your hands dirty working in a community garden or wander the campus and discover the next hidden gem.

3. Attend a show at the Epstein Family Amphitheater
The Epstein Family Amphitheater showcases local and international talent in everything from large-scale rock concerts to classical quartets and theatrical dance. This state-of-the-art outdoor entertainment venue was built in 2022, and lies in the heart of campus. For more about arts, culture and entertainment on campus, explore the Student Life webpage.

4. Snap a Photo with King Triton
The ultimate hype man, King Triton has been UC San Diego’s mascot since 1964, representing the university’s proximity to the ocean and deep connection to Scripps Institution of Oceanography. Catch him roaming about for campus and UC San Diego Athletics’ events. Ranked the No. 1 mascot by USA Today, he’s truly a legend. Follow him on Instagram @kingtritonucsd and tag your photo with #KingoftheSea.

5. Join (or start) a student organization
You never know where you’ll find your people. Explore the more than 750 student organizations on campus, and don’t be afraid to start your own! If the Costco Club president can fill an amphitheater and make headlines for eating an entire rotisserie chicken, you can follow almost any passion and bring people together. Search for organizations based on hobbies, community service, areas of study and more through the Center for Student Involvement.

6. Tour Fallen Star
There’s something about stepping inside a house hanging off the side of an engineering building. Public art taken to a new level, Fallen Star is complete with a front yard, furnishings and history — and always evokes a sense of awe. Schedule a tour and visit the more than 20 Stuart Collection installations all around campus. Listen along to the Inscape audio tour for a wellness-based experience designed to deepen your connection with each piece of art.

And, yes, those trees in the eucalyptus grove across from Geisel Library are talking.

7. Take on opportunity
There are endless opportunities on campus. Be brave and push yourself outside of your comfort zone. Get real-world experience in a research lab or student job, present in an academic competition or conference, take flight and study abroad, or even board a Scripps Oceanography research vessel. You may be surprised by what you learn and how you grow.

8. Visit Birch Aquarium
Dive into the wonders of our ocean planet at Birch Aquarium at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and get up close with marine life while supporting conservation efforts. From sea dragons, corals, jellies, Little Blue Penguins, a Giant Pacific Octopus and a Loggerhead Sea Turtle, you’re bound to be delighted by Birch Aquarium’s exhibitions. Get a bite to eat, admire the ocean scenery and enjoy the student discount on admission.

9. Cheer on the Tritons at a game
In March 2025, UC San Diego Athletics became the first program in NCAA history to have both its men's and women's basketball teams qualify for the NCAA Tournament in their first season of Division I postseason eligibility. More legendary moments are sure to come when UC San Diego joins the West Coast Conference in 2027. So even if you don’t know the rules, cheer on the Tritons at a competition and show your school spirit. The energy is contagious.

10. Ride the Blue Line Trolley
No car, no problem. The Blue Line Trolley is your ticket south from the UC San Diego Central Campus Station. See a Padres baseball game or explore what iconic San Diego neighborhoods have to offer using the Blue Line.

11. Rock out at Sun God Festival
A UC San Diego tradition spanning more than 40 years, the annual Sun God Festival is a student-curated, daytime music and arts festival organized by the Associated Students Concerts and Events committee. Don’t miss this springtime staple featuring musicians, student performers, local food vendors and interactive experiences. Get involved with planning the event, and join the ranks of music-industry legends who helped bring the festival to life.

12. Indulge in the culinary scene
From fusion tacos to Caribbean classics, UC San Diego’s nearly 100 dining spots ensure you’ll never run out of flavors. Make it a challenge — try every coffee shop, take a global tasting tour around campus, or be one of the first to try Dora, the Italian restaurant opening in the Theatre District Living and Learning Neighborhood this fall.

13. See the bioluminescence
When conditions are just right, waves light up along the shoreline of local beaches with blue bioluminescent plankton. Difficult to predict but always magical, you’re most likely to catch this phenomenon between spring and early fall. Plan to grab some friends and watch the waves glow under the night sky sometime during your student experience.

14. Start a new hobby or lend a hand
Between lectures and labs, try picking up glassblowing, surfing, yoga or another hobby to boost your creativity and well-being. You’ll be surprised by the diversity of activities offered through UC San Diego Recreation and the Craft Center. Now’s your time to try new things! And if you want to lend a helping hand, visit the Triton Food Pantry, mentor a student from The Preuss School UC San Diego or explore other community service options through the Center for Student Involvement.

15. Celebrate at All Campus Commencement
Attending All Campus Commencement might be the ultimate checkmark on your UC San Diego bucket list — a signal that you’ve made it through the student journey. Soak in the achievement, enjoy the show and celebrate with loved ones as you prepare to step boldly into whatever comes next.